The President:
Hi, everybody.
Over the past year, as I
traveled across the country
campaigning for this office, I
told you that if I was fortunate
enough to be re-elected, I'd
work to change a tax code that
too often benefited the
wealthy at the expense of the
middle class.
This week, we did that.
For the first time
in two decades,
we raised taxes on the
wealthiest 2% of Americans in a
bipartisan way, while preventing
a middle-class tax hike that
could have thrown our
economy back into recession.
Under this law, more than 98%
of Americans and 97% of small
business will not see their
income taxes go up one dime.
We also made sure that millions
of families will continue to
receive tax credits to help
raise their children and send
them to college.
Companies will continue to
receive tax credits for the
research they do, the
investments that they make,
and the clean energy
jobs that they create.
And two million Americans who
are out of work will continue to
receive unemployment benefits
so long as they are actively
looking for a job.
But all this was just one step
in the broader effort to grow
our economy and
shrink our deficits.
We still need to do more to put
Americans back to work while
also putting this country on
a path to pay down its debt.
And our economy can't afford
more protracted showdowns or
manufactured crises
along the way.
Because even as our businesses
created 2 million new jobs last
year -- including 168,000
new jobs last month --
the messy brinksmanship in
Congress made business owners
more uncertain and
consumers less confident.
We know there's a path forward.
Last year, I signed into
law $1.7 trillion in
deficit reduction.
This week's action further
reduces the deficit by $737
billion, making it one of the
largest deficit reduction bills
passed by Congress
in over a decade.
And I'm willing to do more.
I believe we can find more
places to cut spending without
shortchanging things like
education, job training,
research and technology all
of which are critical to our
prosperity in a 21st
century economy.
But spending cuts must be
balanced with more reforms to
our tax code.
The wealthiest individuals
and the biggest corporations
shouldn't be able to take
advantage of loopholes and
deductions that aren't
available to most Americans.
As I said earlier this week, one
thing I will not compromise over
is whether or not Congress
should pay the tab for a bill
they've already racked up.
If Congress refuses to give the
United States the ability to pay
its bills on time, the
consequences for the entire
global economy could
be catastrophic.
The last time Congress
threatened this course of
action, our entire
economy suffered for it.
Our families and our businesses
cannot afford that dangerous
game again.
I congratulate the newly
sworn-in Members of Congress,
and I look forward to working
with the new Congress in a
bipartisan way.
If we focus on the interests of
our country above the interests
of party, I'm convinced we can
cut spending and raise revenue
in a manner that reduces our
deficit and protects the
middle class.
And we can step up to meet the
important business that awaits
us this year.
Creating jobs; boosting incomes;
fixing our infrastructure and
our immigration system.
Promoting our energy
independence while protecting
our planet from the harmful
effects of climate change.
Educating our children and
shielding them from the horrors
of gun violence.
These aren't just
things we should do --
they're things we must do.
And in this New Year, I'll
fight as hard as I know how to
get them done.
Happy New Year, everybody.